So, let's get into everyone's
favorite discussion, text editors.
[LAUGH] This is not
a contentious topic at all,
especially from someone that works
on the Visual Studio Code team.
[LAUGH] So someone from the Visual Studio
Code team is going to teach you how to use
other text editors.
So, the next one we're going to
get into is one called nano.
Now, the reason why I'm going to teach you
these things is I still want you to use
Visual Studio code.
I still think it's objectively
the superior editor, and
I will fight people on that.
But there's just a long running joke
that people get stuck in them, right?
And I don't want that.
So, I'm going to show
you how to quit them.
That's basically the extent of
what I'm going to show you today.
But I'm also going to show you
how to use nano as a little bit,
because it is frequently useful to be
able to edit text in the command line and
it's good for you to know how
to use the two most common ones.
I guarantee you on any Linux distro,
you always have least nano or
vim available to you,
hopefully both, usually both.
And I just want you to know how
to use them and how to quit them.
That's it.
So, I've never been a command line
editor person, I've always used,
I started with textmate.
And then I moved to sublime, and
then I used the Visual Studio code.
And I've never even really tried to
use vim as like a professional tool.
I think it's great if you know how
to use it, high fives all around.
You're probably not taking this course
if you're a vim professional, so.
Or maybe you are, I don't know,
I could be surprised.
But man,
I just hate having these discussions,
particularly with people that
think they're superior because of
the text editor that they chose,
which is why I put this XKCD in here.
It's one of my favorite ones about
real people, real programmers
use butterflies to redirect light rays and
that flip bits on hard drives.
That's the real way of programming.
People don't use cat or Ed or
vim or Emacs or anything like that.
So yeah, that's from XKCD.
I left it linked here.
That's from Randall Munroe,
who's so fantastic.
There's like four more XKCDs in here,
because if you're doing command line,
nano makes a lot of command line jokes.
So, all this to say,
these are all great tools.
If you know how to use them, then the tool
is as good as the master using it, right?
So yeah, that's all I want to say.
I want you to not be afraid of these
tools, like I know whenever I got thrown
into vim, like when I was really early
in my career, I would get so frustrated.
There's an article on Stack Overflow about
how they have like a separate server or
a separate specific caching strategy for
how to quit vim.
Because it's like 80% of their traffic,
or something ridiculous like that.
So, yeah, it's a problem.
If you get thrown into vim and don't how
to quit it is the most frustrating thing,
because control C and
control D both don't work with vim.
But let's talk about nano first.
So, the reason why I talk about nano
is because nano is so small, and
it's on literally everything.
So, if you need to edit a text file,
sometimes vim won't be available.
And frequently nano will
be the default one.
So, sometimes you just
get chucked into nano.
And if you don't know how to exit it,
it can be a little odd.
So, nano is a very old open source editor,
and
it's based itself on
another editor called Pico.
And Pico was part of a mail client.
So, people wrote emails using Pico,
but they liked it so
much that they actually broke it out of,
what was the name of that?
Pine, it was called Pine, was the name
of like the suite for editing emails and
a bunch of other stuff.
And they had Pico built into it, but
it wasn't licensed in such
a way that people could use it.
So, they broke it down and
they called it nano.
It was called TIP for a while,
which is called Tip isn't Pico.
This is another thing that
computer scientists just
think that they're hilarious they love to
do which is called the recursive acronym,
which is an acronym that's
defined in terms of itself.
Another one would be PHP,
which is PHP stands for PHP,
hypertext preprocessed, right?
That's what Pico is as well, Tip isn't
Pico, or that's what TIP was, and
then they renamed it eventually to nano.
Computer scientists are silly
in the weirdest ways.
So, it's tiny, it's lightweight,
it's very permissively licensed.
And so, everyone has nano on their
even tiny like embedded devices.
nano is so small it's often even
on those because it is so small.
So, it's good just to know enough about
nano that you're not afraid of it,
you can use it if you need to.
So, let's just go ahead and hop into it.
Open back here, and
I'm in my home directory here.
So, I want you to type nano textfile.txt.
This is gonna pop you into nano,
which again is maintained by
the GNU project,
which is like a lot of these programs are.
So yeah, nano was written actually
at the University of Washington,
which is cool for
me cuz I'm from Washington.
Yeah, that's where Pine was from,
and they rewrote it so
that they could have a better license for
it.
Because Pine was not licensed in such
a way that the GNU felt comfortable
including in its projects.
So, that's where nano came from.
So, right now I'm just in a text file.
So, this is a text file.
I can write whatever I want.
This is so cool, right?
Normal text editor stuff, and
you can see down here at the bottom,
I have a bunch of different options.
I don't really know very much about nano.
I know enough to write text and
save and quit.
And that's really all
probably you need to know.
I don't know any developers that
use nano for their code editing.
It's really just for
very basic text editing.
But I wanna show you going back to
this character right there down
here at the bottom, that's Control,
so Exit would be Ctrl X,
get help would be Ctrl G, and then write
out is a weird way to say save, right?
So, if I wanted to save this file,
I would hit Ctrl O.
And then it says,
do you want to write to the same file?
I said yes I do.
So, I just hit Enter.
And now I have saved to the file.
And now if I want to exit, I'm just going
to hit Ctrl X, and I am out of nano.
And if I open it again,
everything comes back the way it was.
I think if it's the file is not saved,
if I do this you can see at
the top right it says modified.
If I hit Ctrl X,
it's going to say, are you sure?
Or is it do you want to save?
Or do you want to just go?
So, if I hit yes, Enter,
I saved it, I exited.
And you can see there,
my gibberish is there at the end.
Cool, that's really all I'm
going to show you about nano.
There's more to it.
It's a decent text editor with some
basic features to it, but you're not
going to do anything more than just write
a couple lines and then exit out of it.
Any questions about nano?
Cool, yeah, it's meant to be very simple.
All right.
Yeah, I think the thing to say is like,
if I have to do anything more than what I
just showed you there, is like I will
figure out how to get the file into VS
code and then I'll edit everything in
VS code and put it back into the file.
But if it's just a couple of lines,
I don't mind popping into
nano really quick to do that.